# Tech Days 2014
_Two days of new technology_

Last week, I went to the tech days. I would like to share some thoughts and
impressions with you. Feel free to comment, share your own thoughts.

## wo 16 april 2014
### Massive.js **[key note]**
Erich Gamma showed Monaco, the online development platform of Microsoft. It
was quite impressive to see such a huge application written in JavaScript. The
focus of the talk was in how to manage this code. The Monaco team faced big
issues passing the 100kloc. JavaScript is really (too) forgiving. That,
combined with the lack of interfacing and strong typing, the introduced
TypeScript. The concluded that TypeScript saved there day, and should always
be considered when you’re adding more than just some lines of JavaScript code.

### New and improved ASP.NET MVC 5/Web API2
This was a nice – and nothing more – talk about the new MVC(5) stuff. MS added
a nice feature to MVC5/API2: The routing attribute, a real improvement imho.
The focus was more on Web API, than on MVC. I think this is a good thing.
Personally I would not recommend the use of MVC in the traditional serverside
approach at all. Furthermore, I would not be surprised if Web API 3 (or a later
version) will be released independent from MVC (or without).

### Fundamentals guide to HDP & HDInsight
This talk was about HaDoop, an open source framework developed by Yahoo. It
allows you to analyze Big Data using map/reduce. For .NET the allow querying
using Linq. Really interesting stuff!
See: [hadoopsdk.codeplex.com](http://hadoopsdk.codeplex.com/)

### Using NuGet the way you should
I was really looking forward to this this session, and it was a nice talk.
Unfortunately (due to continuous crashes of Visual Studio) there was not
enough time for questions (I had some). In general: if you distribute code
and/or libraries use NuGet. Not only because it can speed up development
(by reducing the compilation time), it also forces you to think about
versioning and separating concerns.

### Using Orleans for building scalable cloud applications
Orleans is a MS platform that is developed to make (the game) Helo more
scalable. The way it works by creating factories (Silo) that supply proxy
references (grains) to the actual instances. Orleans decides where the real
instances live, and can handle the up and down scaling. It is a powerful
framework, but more suited for applications like Helo, than for applications
like Exact Online. But maybe at some point It can become interesting for us too.

See: [research.microsoft.com/en-us/projects/orleans](http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/projects/orleans)